Is this on?
Can everyone hear me?
Good morning everyone.
My name is Miguel Sanchez.
I'm a member of the WebObjects
engineering group and with me
is Mike Hoffhines who will be
helping me out during the demos.
Let me get a quick read
of the audience out there.
How many of you are WebObjects
developers or have used WebObjects?
Good.
How many of you have used Direct to Web?
Okay.
For those of you that haven't,
the first half of the talk will be
an introduction to Direct to Web,
so don't freak out.
But we'll also be talking
about some advanced features of
Direct to Web for those users.
Has anybody used
Direct to Web in 4.5 yet?
Okay, one person.
I'm going to be talking about
some of the new features we have.
So what is Direct to Web?
Direct to Web is a Java-based
technology for rapid development of
database-driven web applications.
Whenever you install
WebObjects on your system,
don't go out looking for an
application called Direct to
Web because you won't find it.
There is no such thing.
Direct to Web is really a set of things.
It's a Java framework
called Direct to Web.
It's a project builder wizard and a
web assistant applet that will help
you configure applications at runtime.
So the first thing we're going
to do is jump right into a demo.
We're going to make your
head spin with demos today.
We have four demos,
so I hope we don't lose you.
Can we get the demo machine up on screen?
So we're going to give you
a very quick demo of what
Direct to Web can do for you.
What we're going to do here is
create a very simple database
administrative application that
uses a restaurant's database.
We're going to use a restaurant's
database throughout all of our demo.
The database models restaurants and
their locations and the type of food
they serve and we're going to be
customizing our site along the way.
So what we would start out doing
is bringing up Project Builder.
and typing in the name
of our application.
In this case,
it's going to be called Tengo Hambre,
which in Spanish means I'm hungry.
We pick the application to be
of type WebObjects application.
This is the first place where
you see Direct to Web as
a project builder wizard.
Within project builder,
you choose your application
to be of type Direct to Web.
We go on.
And here we specify the model.
Before the demo, we created our database,
we created a Neo model,
and that's pretty much the only
thing that Direct to Web requires
to jumpstart the application.
So Mike just picked the model,
the Tengo Hambre model.
We'll be talking about the
model a little later on.
And we click Next.
We choose a look.
I'll talk about the looks later.
Neutral look, and then we launch.
And that's it.
Based solely on the information
you gave us in the model,
Direct to Web has built this very generic
application for you with a login page.
We log into the application.
and it automatically knows about all of
the tables or the entities in your model,
about their attributes,
and it gives you a whole set
of pages to do stuff with them.
You can query on them, you can insert,
delete, you can list them.
So for example, we're going to look,
we're going to search on restaurants,
we're going to go to the
restaurant search page,
and we're going to look for restaurants
that begin with the letter M.
And this is live,
we're hitting the database,
we get a list page with
all the restaurants.
If we wanted to delete,
we could hit the icon on the left hand,
the right hand side of the screen,
or we could drill down into
a more specific record,
like we're going to look
into my restaurant right now,
Miguel's Mexican Food.
So we get edit pages.
We could,
let's say that my food chain is doing
so well and my chicken fajitas are hit,
so we add a new location.
Actually, we don't have any locations,
so it's my first location.
So we have pages to edit,
to add objects in
relationship to other objects.
Okay,
we'll be talking more about all this.
Right now,
what I wanted to let you know is
that you get all of this for free,
just by giving us your EO model.
And this is live and
hitting the database.
And another thing I'd like to point out,
could we bring up the project?
okay so he introduced a new location he
saved the project okay the main thing
I'd like to point out here is there is
no code okay there is no here's your
project and there's no reference to any
such thing as query restaurant page edit
restaurant page all of these pages are
being generated generated dynamically
at runtime for you okay so it's not
just a wizard that dumps code on enter
your project this is all dynamic and
we that what that means is you can you
can change it at runtime you can do
a lot of customization without having
to write any code so we'll get back
to the slides now so that was a very
very quick introduction to direct to web
What kind of applications would
you want to use Direct to Web for?
Well, first of all,
I think you should all consider
Direct to Web as your generic
database administration application
for any application you do.
Without doing anything,
you have this application that
gives you edit pages and query
pages and delete pages and all.
This is probably the first
step to validating your model.
Does it work?
You don't have to write anything.
You just want to make sure that
relationships point the way to
what you want them to point,
that things make sense on the web.
But you can also use
it to create very real,
very functional intranet
and workgroup applications.
This isn't just a prototyping tool.
And the reason for that is
that we offer you an iterative
application development cycle.
Direct to Web plugs into all the data.
You can use it to create different
layers that WebObjects provides you.
So you're not just playing
around with prototypes here.
What are the advantages
of using Direct to Web?
First of all, you get a rich set of
default pages and behaviors,
things you don't have to write.
Hopefully this will allow you to
concentrate on your business model and
the specific logic of your application.
You also get something,
what we call WYSIWYG application
customization.
What we mean by this is that
we offer you a tool so that at
runtime you can customize your
application without recompiling.
It's a good starting point
for learning WebObjects.
If you feel intimidated
by the learning curve,
this is probably a good thing
to fire up and have a quick
running application right away.
And don't forget,
it offers you a layered approach
to application development.
If you're an experienced
WebObjects developer,
you can plug in your application.
You can plug into the more
advanced layers of Direct to Web.
Direct to Web is not
just a prototyping tool.
What is the typical development cycle
for the Direct to Web application?
As we saw, we begin with a Neo model.
The basis of a Direct to Web application
is a good database definition.
With this we give you a default
Direct to Web application.
What you saw,
you get all these pages to edit and
delete and administer your database.
Then you bring up a Java applet which we
call the Web Assistant and this applet
runs alongside your browser and you can
tell us to configure certain things,
certain things in your page
the way you want them to be.
After having done this,
you have a more customized
Direct to Web application.
Notice that at this point you
still haven't written any code.
But you can get to that.
There's going to be a point where you
probably want to touch your HTML and
you want to write your own Java core
or tweak some of the Java we have.
You can do that.
And the end result will hopefully
be a custom WebObjects application.
So remember,
Direct to Web offers you different
layers in which you can program.
You can be at the very top
layer using a Java applet,
no code, and using all the default
behavior we give you.
You can also work at a middle layer
when you want to change the way
your pages look with the layout.
And you can get down to the guts
and write Java and do your own HTML.
So we're going to focus
on layer one right now.
This is the zero lines of code layer.
What we ask from you right now is
to give us a model and we'll give
you a lot of default behavior.
First of all,
you get three different looks that
you can pick with Direct to Web.
You also get nine different
task pages and a web assistant
to configure these with.
So we're going to take
a look at the looks now.
These are the types of looks
you can have in your WebObjects
application by default.
This is what we call the basic look.
The menu bar runs across the
top and the main content of your
application is in the middle.
This is the list page for the basic look.
We also have the neutral look,
which is the one we're going
to be using in our demo here.
The same functionality as the basic look,
except that the menu bar runs
across the side and there's no
references to any Apple icons.
This is a good starting point for
customizing your own application
for your corporate look and feel.
And the WebObjects look.
Very similar to the neutral look,
but except that we have
Apple icons here and there.
For those of you that have used
Direct to Web in the previous versions,
the neutral look is new for version 4.5.
Once you pick the look you
want for your application,
we give you task pages.
With this page you'll
be able to query on,
you'll be able to insert new entities,
you'll be able to associate
entities and relationships
and you get all this for free.
But there's going to be a point
where the default behavior we give
you is not good enough for you.
You want to tell us a little more about
how you want your attributes displayed,
which entities you want read-only,
which ones you want read-write.
For that, we offer you a web assistant,
which is a little Java applet,
which we're going to show
you right in a moment,
where you can tell us how you
want certain things displayed.
You can make certain decisions.
And you can do all this
without writing any code.
So the Web Assistant allows you to
configure things like your access
permissions and the entities,
the way you want to
display your attributes,
and general page layout issues.
This is the final application
we're working towards,
the Tango Ambry application.
We're going to have three pages.
In the first page,
we're going to have a query page
for restaurants where users can
log in and query on a particular
restaurant based on a certain type
of food or where the restaurant is.
After they do their query,
they would see the results of all the
possible restaurants they can go to.
And then they would pick a particular
restaurant and get the information
such as where it is and how to
get there and the phone number.
So that's what we want to get to.
It's going to take us
three demos to do that,
but I want you to have that in your mind.
This is the model we're using.
The main entities in our database are
going to be restaurants and locations.
Where they are,
each location might have a different
price range depending on the city.
And each restaurant might prepare
more than one type of cuisine.
So now we go off to demo two.
In the first demo,
we created a very generic
application that allowed us to
access the restaurant database that
we had created prior to the demo.
In this demo, wrong screen, oh no,
I'm looking at the wrong, yeah,
I was looking down here, it's okay.
So in this application,
we're going to start to customize,
give our application a little more
the look and feel that we want.
And the first thing we do is
bring up the web assistant,
which is a Java applet,
runs alongside our browser.
Coming up.
We're running this on
Mac OS Server 1.2 with OmniWeb.
So here's the Web Assistant.
And the Web Assistant has different
tabs depending on the function you
want to perform at that moment.
So let's look at the Entities tab.
If you bring up this tab,
you'll be able to tell us which
entities you want to have in
your application be read/write,
which ones you want to read only,
and which ones you want
to hide altogether.
For our purposes of the demo,
we want everything to be read/write only.
We don't want the users out
on the internet changing our
information on the database.
The next tab you see is the Pages,
the Page tab.
Here you can customize certain
attributes about your whole page.
For example,
let's go to the list page on restaurants.
Let's do a query.
And here, notice that the live
assistant is following you,
depending on the page you go to,
that's the display of the live assistant.
So here you can tell us things like,
well,
do you want to show the banner or not?
What kind of color do you want
for the background tables?
Some pages even have more than
one way of displaying themselves.
For example,
you can display the results of a query in
a plain list format or in a master distal
format or in a list page that shows the
results in columns rather than rows.
In this case, all we're going to do is
get rid of the banner.
We do save and then we refresh.
Notice that we changed some
configuration in the Live Assistant,
we refreshed the page
and the banner is gone.
By the way,
the banner was the thing that said list,
not this thing which is called a
batch navigation bar and you need
that because you might have more
than one page worth of results.
So the next tab on the Web Assistant is
called the Properties and this
is probably where you're going
to be spending most of your time.
We're going now to the query page for
restaurant and the properties tab.
And you'll be able to see in
the middle column right here,
You'll be able to see all of the
properties that are currently
displayed for that page.
In this case, querying on an icon for a
restaurant does not make sense,
so we want to get rid of that
so we can hide properties.
We also want the name property
to be the first thing on the page
so we can move it up to the top.
Then we can click update on the
web assistant or save and do a
refresh and we see that change
in our application at runtime.
We also have, in addition to renaming
them and reordering them,
we can choose to display
them using different fields.
For example, in the locations,
we don't want people to query
based on street address,
we want them to query based on the zip.
SIP code.
So we tell her, you know,
display the SIP code for this field.
And then for Cuisines,
which is a too many relationship,
that's a very non-intuitive way of seeing
all the types of food you can query on.
We offer you a type of component
called D2W Query Too Many Relationship.
Where you can tell it to use
the text description of the...
Are you... You're still in locations,
Mike.
I'm sorry?
You're still in locations.
I didn't hear you from... Yeah.
So we're picking to display Cuisines
using a relationship component
in a browser with one column.
and we read this play.
Okay.
He put this in also as
a too many relationship.
Okay.
But what I'd like you to see here is that
you're doing all these configurations
with your application at runtime
and your application is still live.
There's way too many components that
we offer you here to talk about all
of them during this presentation.
That would take all of our time.
So just go away with the idea that if you
have numbers or strings or relationships
whether they're too many or too one,
we offer you different types of
browsers and tables and color
strings and all of these types of
configurable components for you to use.
So this is our page.
Now we query on American Food.
See, the app is still live.
We're going to configure this page to
show the locations of the restaurants.
So we go to the Live Assistant.
And by default we hide
relationships in list pages.
So we tell it, you know,
we want to see the
locations of the restaurant.
And we want to use a
display-to-menu table to see them,
see all the types of
components you can use,
and show the city of the restaurant.
So we're doing all of this
configuration at runtime.
We pick a particular restaurant.
Can you click on Palo Alto, for example?
We're going to a restaurant inspect page.
In this case, we're going to hide all
of the address attributes.
And we're also going to see,
see where it says price right here?
We know that in our database,
price holds two things.
It not only holds the description,
such as inexpensive in this case,
it also holds an icon showing a
dollar sign or two dollar signs based
on how expensive the restaurant is.
We can traverse to one relationships
in our pages and we can choose
to display the price icon.
You've got to get rid of the price first.
Yeah, you can say,
I want to choose the price relationship,
display its icon attribute as an image.
You get a very rich set of
components that you can use here.
And you might be wondering, well,
this is fine,
but in the first demo you showed
us that there was no code,
so where is all this information going?
Well, if we bring up the project,
you see that we still have no
references to any specific pages.
All of that configuration you
were giving us goes into a model.
We call it the D2W model.
And it's nothing more than
a text file with all the
rules that you're telling us.
For example,
in this rule you're telling us,
if you're in the task inspect and
the entity is location and what you
want to display is a price.icon,
then you have to use the
display image as your component.
So all of this information you're
giving us using the Web Assistant is
being stored in a text file.
So that's the end of demo two.
Can we go back to the slides?
So we've been working in the first
layer of Direct to Web where without
writing any code and using a Java applet
that runs alongside your browser,
you get to customize a lot of things
about your page and how you want to
display parts of your attributes.
Now we're jumping to layer two.
You might say, "Well, Miguel,
that's great, but you know what?
I don't like the menu bar.
I want my icon, my company's icon to
show up on all the pages.
I want this banner to be here.
I want this other component to
be down here." We understand.
We can't guess everything that
you want right off the bat,
but we give you the hooks to do that.
So this is where layer two comes out.
In layer two,
you can begin to customize the
layout of your application,
whether it's application-wide
or task-specific.
For application-wide layout,
for things that you want
displayed on all of your pages,
you're going to edit something
called the page wrapper.
The page wrapper is a piece of
HTML which is going to be inserted
in your project when you create it,
which tells us how you
want your pages laid out.
Where does the menu go?
Where does the content of the page go?
So you can plug in your own
stuff into this page and say,
"Well, I want this icon to show
up on all the pages.
I want this banner to show up on all
the pages." And that's how you get
your specific corporate look and feel.
[Transcript missing]
Now, how does a page know what to
do with itself at runtime?
How does the rule information get
translated into something meaningful?
As we saw, rules are stored in a
file in text format.
For example,
here we're looking at this rule.
This is very similar to
what we saw in the demo.
If we're listing a
restaurant's locations,
then we want to use the
display to many table.
So that's a text file.
To evaluate rules at runtime,
we use something called a D2W context.
So all of the bindings in your
HTML template that we give you are
going to have reference to keys of
the type D2W context dot something.
So when you see D2W context
dot something in your WAD file,
in your bindings file
for the HTML we give you,
that's when the rule system kicks in.
And we're going to show you
some of this in demo three.
So in our second demo,
we customized the query
page for restaurants,
the list page for restaurants,
and the inspect page for locations.
In this demo,
we're going to begin to give
a more corporate look and
feel to our application.
And because we start to use
our own company's resources,
our images and our source code,
we need to add the
framework to our project,
which is what Mike just did.
The first thing we do is bring
up the page wrapper component,
which is in our project.
And as you can see, this tells us, well,
the layout of this application
is this blue bar with a
menu and then the content.
We don't want the menu.
So Mike goes in there,
wipes out the menu component,
and replaces it with an image.
And we say that the image we want
is the logo for our application,
which is a gift called Tengo Number 3.
There it is.
And our marketing department
decided that we also want to
advertise our sponsors and our site.
So across the top, below the content,
look for the content.
Yeah, I lost that here.
Yeah.
We want to insert a reusable
component which we wrote before.
It's called the add component,
the add banner.
So now we've modified
the HTML surrounding our
layer of application.
We recompile.
Notice we haven't added any code.
Well, we have added a little bit of code
where we do the advertisement as
you'll see once the application runs.
So we log in and there it is.
Our application is starting
to take more the look we want.
This was a very simple change.
All we did was add an icon.
But what I want you to realize
is that you have the HTML there
so you can do whatever you want.
And we can click,
let's go to the restaurant list page.
We search on restaurants.
And you can see that the icon
here changes because our add
component is clicking into place.
So that's how you use the page
wrapper to customize the whole
layout of your application.
But now let's look at this list page.
In our application,
we don't want this icon to show up.
This icon allows you to go to the
inspect page of a particular restaurant.
We don't want that to show up.
In your case, it could have been
something more complex.
In this case,
we don't want this column to show up.
And we don't give you access in the web
assistant to get rid of that column.
And you're probably going to
come across moments in your
development cycle where you say,
"Oh,
I really wish these guys would have given
me this checkbox in the web assistant
to do this or to do that." Well,
that was a problem in previous
releases of Direct to Web.
I think it's much less of a
problem now because you can
bring up the web assistant.
Is the web assistant up?
Okay.
I think you have to
restart the web assistant.
Yeah,
but there was also an error on startup.
So just restart it here.
Okay, so what we're going to do once the
web assistant comes up is we're going
to go to the restaurant list page.
and we're going to generate
a template for that page.
And once we generate the template,
we're going to have the
HTML for the template and we're
going to be able to edit it,
but it's still going to be the
dynamic version of the HTML.
We'll be able to do stuff to it,
but not lose the accustomed... whoops.
Oh, the port to the web assistant, right?
Yeah, the problem we're having here is
each time the application comes up,
it comes up on a different port,
and the web assistant
connects to that port.
So we were restarting the app and
the application had changed its port,
so it didn't know how to talk back.
We thought we had set a
default for that port,
but obviously we hadn't.
So we're back here,
we're in the list page
and we say we want,
we hope,
we wish we could get to the HTML of
this piece of Direct to Web so we
can get rid of this column here.
So we go to the generation tab of
the Web Assistant and we choose list.
and we tell it to give us the
template for this component.
So that was a very simple operation.
Let's see what that did.
If we go to the project,
We see that we have something
called neutral list template and we
opened that in WebObjects Builder.
Can you show a little bit of the HTML?
Scroll down.
Actually, first show the other view,
the display view.
Yeah.
But scroll down.
All right.
So here you have the HTML that
displays the list page.
Go down a little more, a little more.
But notice that there's no
reference whatsoever to your model.
There's no reference to a restaurant
because this is the dynamic version of
the HTML we're using in Direct to Web.
And can you go back to
the bindings view now?
In the binding view,
you will see a lot of references to
things like D2WContext.ComponentName,
D2WContext.DisplayPropertyKeys.
So at runtime, all of these things will
be evaluated for you.
So, okay, so what's good about this?
We're going to get rid of the column.
We're going to get rid of this whole
column to select... I think that's it.
Okay, and then we recompile.
So we're editing the HTML.
In this case we're doing
a very simple edit.
We're just getting rid of a column.
But it could have been something
much more complex in the way you
want to lay out your display,
your list display.
We recompile your application.
And we're going to go once again
to the restaurant list page.
Just click on restaurant, right?
Okay, so we no longer see that column.
Okay, so what?
Right?
Well, we can still use the web assistant.
Go back to the web assistant and
we might have lost the port again.
In previous versions of Direct to Web,
when you generated the HTML,
you didn't have the dynamic
version of the HTML.
You had a very static,
you had reference to the specific
entity you wanted to display.
So you lost all the
ability to customize it.
But with templates,
you're able to access the HTML,
do whatever you want to it,
but still be able to customize
it using the Web Assistant,
which should come up in a minute.
So we're in the list page.
The redisplay of-- go to
properties for the list page.
And let's say that we want
to display this column,
this redisplay.
Let's say that we want to display
the name of restaurants using a...
A string that allows us
to configure color to it,
something called a style string, bold,
italic,
and then justifying it to the left.
We re-display.
And there you go.
Okay?
So you get, you don't lose the ability to
customize your pages using the
Web Assistant and for those of you that
have used Direct to Web in the past,
I hope you see the power here in
not losing the customizability.
So,
I think this is the end of our demo two,
right?
Demo three?
Which number are we in?
I forgot.
So we've just finished doing the second
layer of Direct to Web where we're
changing the layout of our application.
But you're all developers,
so you're probably itching to
get to the Java code and plug
in your own functionality.
You can do that.
Okay.
You can, in layer three of Direct to Web,
you can modify the behavior
of your application.
And we offer four ways of doing that.
Something new in version four or
five is called D2W custom component.
We also offer the Direct to
Web components as reusable
components to use in your
application as embedded components.
We offer Direct to Web API that
you can program to.
And you can always generate the code.
D2W Custom Component,
second time for developers
to wake up here.
Nguyen 45
You can plug in your own
reusable component to display a
particular attribute in a page.
All you have to take care of is that
that component implements two keys,
one called object and one called key.
That's how we're going to instantiate
your component and tell you this is
the object you're displaying and this
is the key you want to display right
now in case it's a reusable component.
Say you're displaying dates and you have
three instances of dates in your page.
You need to know which particular
key we have at that moment.
And then you use the Web Assistant to
configure to tell us we're going
to... And for this property,
please use my component.
You also have all of the
Direct to Web pages available
to you as reusable components.
In fact,
there is a palette in WebObjects Builder
where you can just drag things into
your HTML and set up all the bindings in
case you want to embed one of our list
pages in one of your more complex pages.
You have API that you can program to.
You can jump into the dynamic world of
Direct to Web from your applications,
even if they didn't start out
being Direct to Web applications.
All you have to do is add the framework
to your project and you can call methods.
Let's say that you have five pages
in your application which you wrote,
but you like our list page.
You would like to do 80% of what you do,
but at some point have a hyperlink
that jumps into the Direct to
Web list page because you don't want
to rewrite all that functionality.
You can do that.
The key to doing that is
messaging a class called D2W.
We got a static method called Factory,
which gives you the main instance
of the Direct to Web class.
And in that class you're going
to find a lot of methods like
list page for entity name.
You'll find another method called
query page for entity name,
inspect page for entity name.
And you give us the entity and the
session and we'll give you back the page.
So from your code you can message
us and we'll give you back the
page for you to jump into the
dynamic world of Direct to Web.
And obviously each one of these
pages you get back is going to
have its own associated API.
In the case of the list page,
we have methods set data
source and set next page.
So for example here you can tell
us if it's a list page where are
you going to get your data from?
After I click return on my list page,
where do you want me to go back to?
You can do that.
So if it were an inspect page you
would have slightly different API.
But you have API to all of the pages
in Direct to Web so that you can
jump in and out of the list page.
into them from your code.
And finally, you can generate code.
You can say, "This is all great,
but I really,
really need to see the Java code
to see how you're doing this
particular component." Well,
there's a button in the web
assistant where you can say,
"I'm done with all the
customization you give me.
I click on it and we dump all the
HTML and all the Java for you to
see and to touch and do whatever
you want with it." In fact,
we try to remove all of the references of
Direct to Web in the Java code we have,
so it's all unrolled so you can
edit it without being dependent
on Direct to Web so much.
The downside of this is that we're
not smart enough to reparse the
code for you to be able to customize
your pages using the web assistant.
So you've got to give up something.
We give you the full access
to the HTML and the Java,
but you can't use the web assistant to
change your pages on the fly anymore.
We now go to our final demo.
What we're going to do here is,
if you've been paying attention
to the first page that comes up
when we bring up the application,
the first thing that comes up after our
user logs in is a query all page where
they can query on all the entities.
This does not make sense in our demo.
We want the first page to be the page
where they can query on a restaurant.
So for this,
we go into the code for the login page.
And we change this method to,
it used to be D2WFactory.defaultPage.
We now rewrite it to be D2WFactory,
give us the Direct to Web class,
and give me the query
page for the entity.
That's what I want to be my default page.
So when this method, default page,
is called, I want you to return the
query page for a restaurant.
And I want you to, that's the first thing
I want to see on my page.
So we recompile the application.
Again, a very trivial example,
but this could be any,
this could be your code in
your method in your classes.
We bring up the page, we log in,
and we get an exception.
. Yeah, Direct to Web does not
come with spell checking.
yet.
The yet part was a joke, okay?
I'm not announcing new features here.
Some of you took it too seriously there.
So now we log in and the default
page is our Query Restaurant page.
We could have chosen any other page.
This could be your page.
This could be your code.
That could be your button.
And you could click on that
button and choose to go to
another Direct to Web page.
You have the ability to do that.
You have the API.
Now we're going to search
on American food again.
We're going to pick
Cafe Max and Cupertino.
And notice the street address here.
We removed all of the other fields like
the city and the zip code and all that.
We did that for a reason
for this part of the demo.
We wrote a component that displays an
address all compacted into a little
It's compacted enough to fit all here,
so we don't have different rows.
We can just type address and
we'll see all of the address.
But the important thing about that, that,
What Mike is doing here is
getting back to the applet viewer,
if you're wondering what all
that spew on the screen is.
He's trying to get to the port of
the applet viewer so he can bring it
up again for this part of the demo.
So we're going to plug
in our own component.
So imagine you're coding
along and then you say,
wow, I wish I could write my own
component to display the address
the way I want it to display.
You can.
We wrote a component where you can
display the address as a hyperlink,
which takes you to Yahoo,
and you can see a
Yahoo map of the address.
This could be any other
component in your application.
So we go to the web assistant and we say,
you know, the street address,
I don't like the components you give us,
Miguel.
They're good, but they're limited.
I want to use my own.
So you tell us, D2W custom component.
And my own component
is called StreetMapper.
And this component implements
the object and key bindings.
You display at runtime and then
we have our component here.
Don't click on it yet.
So now we're showing the
address the way we want,
implementing the functionality we want,
because what we wanted to do is
for people to be able to click
on that and take us to Yahoo.
So I think that's the end of our four,
actually that's the end
of all of our demos.
We have a little summary.
So we've just finished customizing
our application at the third level,
which is the full-- we didn't show you,
by the way,
but it would have been just a CC.
You bring up the web assistant
and then you click Generate Code,
and we would have dumped all of
that Java and HTML for you to edit.
But I mean, you've seen that before,
and you can do whatever you want with it.
So in summary, Direct to Web.
Java based technology
for rapid development.
Keywords here are rapid.
We want to do things fast for you
by providing a lot of functionality.
Another keyword is database driven.
All of your Direct to Web applications
start out from a model.
And I guess another keyword
is web applications.
By web I mean HTML.
This is the HTML part of the WebObjects.
The next talk, Java Client,
is where we bring up the
nice Java applets which
Steve showed in his demo.
How do you configure
things using Direct to Web?
You can work, if you don't want to get
your hands dirty with code,
you can use the Web Assistant to tell
us how you want things to be laid out,
how you want things displayed.
That's okay,
you don't need to do that much.
You don't need to know much
of WebObjects to do that.
But in 4.5 we've introduced
two powerful features.
Very simple,
but I hope that the WebObjects developers
out there realize how powerful these
two hooks are to your applications.
You have access to the dynamic version of
the HTML using the 2W templates without
losing the ability to customize your
applications using the Web Assistant.
And you have a way of plugging in
your own custom components to display
the attributes the way you want.
And implement your own functionality.
You might have a hyperlink or a button
in one of your custom components and
do whatever else you want with the page
without losing the ability to customize
other parts of the page dynamically.
And ultimately you can
do code generation.
Where do you go from here?
The best place to start is
probably go to WOL Info Center.
There's two new books for Direct to Web.
We still have the tutorial in the
WebObjects Tools and Techniques
part of the WebObjects manual.
We also have a new book
written by Cliff Liu,
one of our doc people,
a wonderful book called
Developing WebObjects
Applications with Direct to Web.
This book goes into a lot of detail about
the architecture of Direct to Web and
the rule system and how it works and
the context and how you can overwrite
it and how you can write your own task.
A lot of stuff I didn't cover
here because it's just too much
for a one hour presentation.
There's also an updated reference
of all the frameworks and all
the classes in Direct to Web.
You now see that you have this API.
The methods are explained in this.
I would recommend beginning
WebObjects developer,
actually anybody that
hasn't used Direct to Web,
is to just bring up the movies model
which ships with our product and create
a generic Direct to Web application
and start playing around with it.
Configure your pages and
generate code and see all of
the functionality we give you.